---
title: Why I became a software developer
image: /images/IMG_20200217_161802.jpg
image_alt: Pyramids of Giza, Cairo, Egypt
---

In my teen years I mostly liked two things, Drawing and Computers. I used to get
high grades in mostly everything, even the subjects I didn't like like English
and math. But what I really liked to do was drawing. I was not the best in my
class, maybe second or third best but I liked the feeling of drawing and
coloring.

Like most boys in my age I also liked to take things apart and putting them
together again. Understanding what's inside our TV, Radio, my little toys was
one of my interests. I liked the idea of building new shiny things. Solving
problems and making other people lives better. I wanted to be a famous inventor
when I grow up. Although drawing was a beautiful thing but becoming an inventor
was the thing I wanted.

Coming from a middle class family, getting material and tools wasn't an easy
thing so that was a barrier to experiment, so recycling toys parts and
electronic parts and reusing my father home tools was the only thing I can do.
my allowance back then was 0.5 EGP. That can't buy anything but a bag or crispy
potato ships.

Back then we didn't have a personal computer. A friend of mine invited us to
play on their PC on Thursday. His father was very friendly and he's the one that
invited us, he was a computer engineer for a large company back then. I really
appreciate that now. He was the reason I loved computers.

My friend PC was a windows 98 second edition, and they had another one with
windows 95. Both has many games that we enjoyed playing them 2 players at a time
on the same keyboard. I loved computer games. I loved writing in Microsoft word.

Then in 8th grade the ministry of education added a new subject to the 6th
grade. It was "Computers" they learned using windows and writing HTML. My class
didn't have this subject so I found a book thrown somewhere in school
back then and tried every HTML tag I found there. It felt really good and I
wanted more.

I was saving my allowance every day for 3 days a week to get a weekly comics
magazine called "Bolbol" a beautiful magazine with serialized comics stories
mostly from French comic houses translated to Arabic. One day when I was getting
an issue from the newspaper stand I found a magazine called "Language of the
age" it was a computer magazine with a free CD. it was issued monthly and it
costs 7EGP. I decided to get this magazine and I started saving my allowance for
it every month. It took me 14 days every month to save for it. That's one day I
can spend my allowance on potato ships or any other sweet product and another
day saving for the magazine. I managed to buy it every month non-stop for 5
years until I finished high school. I had my desk drawers filled with more than
60 of these magazines and their CDs.

During high school years I still didn't have my first PC, So I was using my
allowance money to get to a computer shop. I used to browse Geocities websites
and learn about HTML, CSS and JavaScript I liked the idea of building web pages
that other people can visit and use. This is where I started my first website on
Yahoo Geocities, It was bookmarks website that hold links to other interesting
websites I liked categorized by topic.

I fell in love with the idea of programming, Making applications and web pages
that can change and react to clicks and mouse movement. I still remember this
script that moves couple bats around your cursor in elliptical orbit while bats
are flapping their wings. I wanted to do that and other beautiful things with
this JavaScript and HTML thing I learned.

I spent alot of money and time doing that in high school and when they had us
choose between 2 subjects: Drawing/Sculpting or Computer programming I choose
programming. After school I wanted to do that for life. I want to invent
these computer programs and websites that are very beautiful and useful for
everyone.

At high school they taught us Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0 this is where I was a
regular visitor to the computer lab, I learned also Macromedia Flash 5.0 there.
built my first simple applications. learned mixing music in Fruity loops and
many other applications that a demo version of it was in the magazine CD I tried
so many of them. Deamweaver, Swish, Freehand, Microsoft movie maker. many others
were in this CD and I installed most of them and used them. I wanted to do that,
I wanted to create applications like these. that was my passion, I got the
highest grades in this subject every time on the whole school. One teacher from
the computer lab was very generous and gave me a subject he studies which
included my topics: ASP classic, XML, XSLT, XPATH and ECommerce. I made a
photocopy for myself and studied it and experimented in the computer lab.

At home we got our first PC in my last year in high school. I loved this PC,
played alot of games and spent alot of time in dreamweaver and flash drawing and
programming. all of that was offline until the home internet companies were
introduced to the public and wasn't just for internet shops. back then it was
very expensive so I had to connect to get something I need and disconnect right
away. The cost was per minute like calls. and while we're using the internet we
can't receive or make a phone call so I had to be very conservative.

After high school I wanted to continue my studies in this field. The faculty of
computer and informatics wasn't a known thing to anyone. I know about it just
because I was interested in the topic. but my parent didn't like the idea of
joining an unknown faculty. So I had to join the Engineering faculty. It was
excruciating two years in my life I had to switch after that to the Faculty of
computers and informatics. it was in another city so I had to live in students
dorms and live off of 70EGP per week including my bus tickets between two
cities, transportation and any other thing I need.

During my two years in the Engineering school I was learning PHP and SQL I
learned a lot and landed my first freelancing job building a website for a local
football fans club. then I landed a part time job at a local company building
websites as a backend developer. I enjoyed doing that and through my 4 years
studying computer science I did this part time job. That helped supporting my
expenses.

During my studies I met a lot of great people made friends with a lot of them.
Learned the theory and the main topics, I didn't think what I was studying was
useful as it didn't translate to any practical experience. But every year after
graduation I feel that was really useful for my career. I appreciate the effort
my professors did to teach us the theories and the basics instead of the tools.
I believe now that this is the right approach to put a solid foundation for a
software engineering career.

During this journey I still had this idea in mind: I want to build stuff people use
and improve their lives. Building software felt like inventing without material.
I just need a computer and to focus and learn to build better software, money is
not a limit to build something useful for everyone.

Next years were the usual life of a developer. Moving from one company to the
next building software that's required by the business. But the shiny part of my
career is my side projects. I loved building software in my leisure time. At any
point of time I must be working on a side project.

Working as a software engineer paid off pretty well financially, And I was one
of these lucky engineers that's doing it because they love programming. What's
keeping me alive is this hope that one day I'll build something that will
improve the lives of millions of people.
